---
layout: post
published: true
title: 2000 Calories
listed: false
sponsored: false
latitude: "0"
longitude: "0"
zoom: "4"
maxZoom: "22"
author: jmorlock
---

You'll see it in a rectangle or sticker on almost any prepackaged food -- nutritional facts with daily values "based on a 2000 calorie diet." It's a number we've seen a lot, but we at Orbitist were wondering what that number really looks like. How much food does it take to get to 2,000 calories? How many calories do people consume here in the U.S.? In other countries? And how far will 2,000 calories take you?

To visualize 2,000 calories, we looked at specific food items. Sugar is a dense source of energy, and about 1.3 pounds will provide you with 2,000 calories. So will 3.6 Big Macs, or 9.5 Sahlen's hot dogs, 25.6 hard-boiled eggs, 19 bananas, 8 1/4 cups of rice, or 18 slices of bread (click here to see our math). Some of those estimates are all based on the nutrition information provided by manufacturers and distributors, which several investigators have found to be inaccurate, including New York Times contributor Casey Neistat in this interesting video. A recent study also found that people given a range of calories for restaurant dishes tend to underestimate how much they are consuming.

Regardless of the exact number of calories, planning a full day's intake of energy from a single type of food would be very imbalanced in terms of nutrition. The USDA provides sample menus that people can use to create a more balanced diet based on 2,000 calories per day.

Of course, 2,000 is just a rough guide -- most people actually have very different caloric needs. (The history of why the USDA uses its current number is explored in this post by author Marion Nestle).

How many calories do people actually consume? According to a report from the CDC on the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey from 1999-2000, an average child between the ages of 6 and 11 consumes 1,881 calories per day. That number rises to 2,129 for the average 12- to 19-year-old. The average boy in that range will have an intake of 2,475, while the average girl comes in at 1,881. The group with the highest median intake is men between the ages of 20 and 39, who come in at 2,642.

How about other countries? The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations uses a different approach than the CDC, estimating the number of calories available on average in different nations, rather than the caloric intake (note with more information). In 2006-2008, the Food and Agriculture Organization found that the average calories available per person per day in the United States was 3,750 -- a little lower than Austria's 3,800, but dwarfing the 1,590 calories available in Eritrea. In this map, we've shown the Food and Agriculture Organization's number for each country.

How far with 2,000 calories get you? That depends on who you are how you are using them. Walking will take you about 22.5 miles walking, while running burns calories more quickly, and you could get about 17.8 miles for 2,000 calories. Swimming laps, you could log about 4.3 miles. (Click here to see our math.) Our map shows just how far you could go on foot using those 2,000 calories.

Calories are the units of energy we talk about when it comes to food, but how does that match up to other energy sources? According to convertunits.com, 2,000 food calories translates into the same amount of energy as 0.064 gallons of gasoline. On that amount of fuel, you could travel a little over 3 miles in a Toyota Prius, a little over 1 mile in a Ford F150, and around .6 miles in a Hummer.